I utilize a conditional logistic regression approach to generate my findings on destination violent crime and property crime on interstate moving decisions. This model includes controls for other state amenities that movers consider, as well as year and state fixed effects. The data for interstate migrants was utilized from the IPUMS ACS 2015 5-year and 2020 5-year samples that provided observations for individual migration decisions and state of residence.  I also utilized the Uniform Crime Reporting Statistics published by the FBI for violent crime and property crime aggregated counts in each state per year.

The data used in this study will be from several different sources: IPUMS ACS data, ACS US Census Bureau data, FBI US Crime Data from 2010 to 2019, and per capita income by state from 2010 to 2015 and 2018 to 2020 provided by the state science and technology institute. The IPUMS ACS data includes 2015 and 2020 5-year ACS data and the ACS US Census Bureau uses the 2010 decennial census and the 2010 and 2015 5-year census. The total range of my dataset will represent observations from 2010 to 2020.

A conditional logit model is the main model used to explore the relationship between crime and interstate migration. In this situation, the model will calculate the probability of the interstate migration of an individual based on two explanatory variables: violent crime and property crime. The outcome variable in the conditional logit model is binary, in this specific model it refers to if the individual migrated to a new state or remained in the current resident state. Individuals in this model choose between a set number of 49 migration choices and will make a migration decision that incorporates rational expectations and utility maximization based on each choice. A conditional logit model is also utilized to evaluate how moving decisions are made with a set of categorical alternatives and reflects the marginality of the relationship between X, crime, and Y, migration, more accurately compared to linear probability models. It is appropriate to use this model because the characteristics of the states vary among states and explanatory variables vary across individuals. The model is set up to evaluate the probability that an individual chooses a specific alternative, this alternative should maximize their utility.

Citation of Paper: Chairassamee, N. (2018). Crimes and Moving Decision in the United States: A Conditional Logit Approach. Applied Economics Journal, 25(1), 1–14.

Citation of IPUMS: Steven Ruggles, Sarah Flood, Matthew Sobek, Daniel Backman, Annie Chen, Grace Cooper, Stephanie Richards, Renae Rogers, and Megan Schouweiler. IPUMS USA: Version 15.0 [dataset]. Minneapolis, MN: IPUMS, 2024. https://doi.org/10.18128/D010.V15.0
